README.md, before:

          ___           ___           ___           ___                       ___
         /\  \         /\  \         /\  \         /\  \                     /\__\
        /::\  \       /::\  \       _\:\  \       /::\  \       ___         /:/ _/_         ___
       /:/\:\__\     /:/\:\  \     /\ \:\  \     /:/\:\__\     /\__\       /:/ /\__\       /|  |
      /:/ /:/  /    /:/ /::\  \   _\:\ \:\  \   /:/ /:/  /    /:/__/      /:/ /:/  /      |:|  |
     /:/_/:/__/___ /:/_/:/\:\__\ /\ \:\ \:\__\ /:/_/:/__/___ /::\  \     /:/_/:/  /       |:|  |
     \:\/:::::/  / \:\/:/  \/__/ \:\ \:\/:/  / \:\/:::::/  / \/\:\  \__  \:\/:/  /      __|:|__|
      \::/~~/~~~~   \::/__/       \:\ \::/  /   \::/~~/~~~~   ~~\:\/\__\  \::/__/      /::::\  \
       \:\~~\        \:\  \        \:\/:/  /     \:\~~\          \::/  /   \:\  \      ~~~~\:\  \
        \:\__\        \:\__\        \::/  /       \:\__\         /:/  /     \:\__\          \:\__\
         \/__/         \/__/         \/__/         \/__/         \/__/       \/__/           \/__/

## rawrify-video-compressor

#### A standalone video compressor for Rawrify. I've split this out from the [main Rawrify project](https://github.com/Han-Lon/rawrify) as a subcomponent


### Purpose
I built this to bypass video upload limits on certain social media platforms (e.g. Discord and 8 MB upload limits).

Simply run this program on video(s) you want to upload and it will attempt to compress them, sacrificing video and audio quality to reduce overall size.

There are limitations on how much a video can be compressed, but this works pretty well for most video files I've worked with.

Also includes functionality for converting videos from .mov to .mp4 format, because simply converting to .mp4 reduces size by a significant amount.


### Prerequisites
- Python 3.8+ recommended, but most 3.0+ versions should work
- Install the required Python packages in requirements.txt using `pip install -r requirements.txt`
- Install [ffmpeg](https://ffmpeg.org/) on your local machine
  - Linux - install from relevant package manager
  - Mac - [homebrew recommended](https://formulae.brew.sh/formula/ffmpeg)
  - Windows - [chocolatey recommended](https://community.chocolatey.org/packages/ffmpeg)


### Command line arguments
- `--desired_size` - desired size of the video(s) in Kb; compression target
<br><br>
- `--video_path` - <OPTIONAL> if compressing a video outside of the `input` folder, specify the path here
<br><br>
- `--no-convert-mov` - <OPTIONAL> specify this to NOT convert .mov files to .mp4 before compression. By default, .mov files will be converted.
<br><br>
### How To Use (Multiple Videos and/or Default Video Location)
- Place video files in the `input` directory within this project
- From the command line, execute `python compressor.py --desired_size $SIZE`
  - $SIZE is the desired size of each video file in the `input` folder (what to try to compress to) in Kb
- Wait for the conversion+compression functions to run
- Check the `input` folder for new `*-compressed.mp4` files (the compressed videos)

### How To Use (Individual Video and/or Non-Default Location)
- From the command line, execute `python compressor.py --desired_size $SIZE --video_path $VIDEO_PATH`
  - $SIZE is the desired size of each video file in the `input` folder (what to try to compress to)
    - This works in a kinda non-intuitive way. Basically it works off of the "magnitude" your video file is already at (e.g. if your video is 100 MB, declaring `--desired_size 1` will attempt to compress to 1 MB. If your video is 100 KB, declaring `--desired_size 1` will attempt to compress to 1 KB)
    - To cut down into a smaller magnitude (e.g. go from MB to KB), try supplying fractions (e.g. `--desired_size 0.5`)
    - READ the top troubleshooting point in the section below-- you can't compress TOO much or ffmpeg will chunder
  - $VIDEO_PATH is the path to the video file you want to convert and/or compress
- Wait for the conversion+compression functions to run
- Check the same folder the source video resides in for a new `*-compressed.mp4` file-- this is your compressed video

### Troubleshooting
- If you try to compress a video too much, you will get a "requested bitrate is too low" error from ffmpeg.
  - This can be resolved by increasing the `--desired_size` value. The ffmpeg CLI output will give you an "estimated minimum"-- you can generally go lower than this

Commit message:

Update README with easy-install instructions

README.md, after:

          ___           ___           ___           ___                       ___
         /\  \         /\  \         /\  \         /\  \                     /\__\
        /::\  \       /::\  \       _\:\  \       /::\  \       ___         /:/ _/_         ___
       /:/\:\__\     /:/\:\  \     /\ \:\  \     /:/\:\__\     /\__\       /:/ /\__\       /|  |
      /:/ /:/  /    /:/ /::\  \   _\:\ \:\  \   /:/ /:/  /    /:/__/      /:/ /:/  /      |:|  |
     /:/_/:/__/___ /:/_/:/\:\__\ /\ \:\ \:\__\ /:/_/:/__/___ /::\  \     /:/_/:/  /       |:|  |
     \:\/:::::/  / \:\/:/  \/__/ \:\ \:\/:/  / \:\/:::::/  / \/\:\  \__  \:\/:/  /      __|:|__|
      \::/~~/~~~~   \::/__/       \:\ \::/  /   \::/~~/~~~~   ~~\:\/\__\  \::/__/      /::::\  \
       \:\~~\        \:\  \        \:\/:/  /     \:\~~\          \::/  /   \:\  \      ~~~~\:\  \
        \:\__\        \:\__\        \::/  /       \:\__\         /:/  /     \:\__\          \:\__\
         \/__/         \/__/         \/__/         \/__/         \/__/       \/__/           \/__/

## rawrify-video-compressor

#### A standalone video compressor for Rawrify. I've split this out from the [main Rawrify project](https://github.com/Han-Lon/rawrify) as a subcomponent


### Purpose
I built this to bypass video upload limits on certain social media platforms (e.g. Discord and 8 MB upload limits).

Simply run this program on video(s) you want to upload and it will attempt to compress them, sacrificing video and audio quality to reduce overall size.

There are limitations on how much a video can be compressed, but this works pretty well for most video files I've worked with.

Also includes functionality for converting videos from .mov to .mp4 format, because simply converting to .mp4 reduces size by a significant amount.


### Easy Method (Windows Only... For Now)
- If you want the lowest effort installation process, read this section
- [Go to the Releases page for this project](https://github.com/Han-Lon/rawrify-video-compressor/releases) and find the most recent "rawrify-video-compressor-windows.zip" file
- Download it
- Extract it to whichever folder you want
- Voila! You are ready to go since it comes pre-packaged with all the Python and FFmpeg dependencies. Refer to the sections below (except Prerequisites) for how to use it
  - Please note you will NOT have to use the `python` keyword for running this-- you can just use `./compressor.exe --desired_size=<DESIRED_SIZE>` and so on

### Prerequisites
- Python 3.8+ recommended, but most 3.0+ versions should work
- Install the required Python packages in requirements.txt using `pip install -r requirements.txt`
- Install [ffmpeg](https://ffmpeg.org/) on your local machine
  - Linux - install from relevant package manager
  - Mac - [homebrew recommended](https://formulae.brew.sh/formula/ffmpeg)
  - Windows - [chocolatey recommended](https://community.chocolatey.org/packages/ffmpeg)


### Command line arguments
- `--desired_size` - desired size of the video(s) in Kb; compression target
<br><br>
- `--video_path` - <OPTIONAL> if compressing a video outside of the `input` folder, specify the path here
<br><br>
- `--no-convert-mov` - <OPTIONAL> specify this to NOT convert .mov files to .mp4 before compression. By default, .mov files will be converted.
<br><br>
### How To Use (Multiple Videos and/or Default Video Location)
- Place video files in the `input` directory within this project
- From the command line, execute `python compressor.py --desired_size $SIZE`
  - $SIZE is the desired size of each video file in the `input` folder (what to try to compress to) in Kb
- Wait for the conversion+compression functions to run
- Check the `input` folder for new `*-compressed.mp4` files (the compressed videos)

### How To Use (Individual Video and/or Non-Default Location)
- From the command line, execute `python compressor.py --desired_size $SIZE --video_path $VIDEO_PATH`
  - $SIZE is the desired size of each video file in the `input` folder (what to try to compress to)
    - This works in a kinda non-intuitive way. Basically it works off of the "magnitude" your video file is already at (e.g. if your video is 100 MB, declaring `--desired_size 1` will attempt to compress to 1 MB. If your video is 100 KB, declaring `--desired_size 1` will attempt to compress to 1 KB)
    - To cut down into a smaller magnitude (e.g. go from MB to KB), try supplying fractions (e.g. `--desired_size 0.5`)
    - READ the top troubleshooting point in the section below-- you can't compress TOO much or ffmpeg will chunder
  - $VIDEO_PATH is the path to the video file you want to convert and/or compress
- Wait for the conversion+compression functions to run
- Check the same folder the source video resides in for a new `*-compressed.mp4` file-- this is your compressed video

### Troubleshooting
- If you try to compress a video too much, you will get a "requested bitrate is too low" error from ffmpeg.
  - This can be resolved by increasing the `--desired_size` value. The ffmpeg CLI output will give you an "estimated minimum"-- you can generally go lower than this
